hey this is presto Walker this puzzle
was sent to me by email high pressure
this problem is so up your alley and I
am requesting a video on it take any
equilateral triangle and pick a random
point inside the triangle draw from each
vertex a line to the random point two of
the three angles at the random point are
known let's say angles x and y if the
three line segments from each vertex to
the random point were removed out of the
original triangle to form a new triangle
what would the new triangles angles be
try to figure it out I was unable to do
so but I do have the unbelievable
solution if you have any trouble regards
Daniel II now I will say I did give this
problem an honest effort and I was
stumped please help me solve this
problem Daniel then provided me with the
solution this problem also has an
interesting background there's a lot
more about it in the video simple math
problems to fool the best on the YouTube
channel gold-plated goof the problem is
also part of a collection of quote
killer problems that were very easy to
state and almost impossible to solve
unless you knew a very specific trick
and as such these problems could be used
for discriminatory purposes at
universities so please check out these
sources for more about the historical
background about this problem and other
problems in this video I'm just going to
focus on the problem and show you the
solution so can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for the solution
so preliminary to get started is that
the lengths of the three sides uniquely
define a triangle by the side-side-side
postulate so we just need to find any
triangle with the three sides blue
yellow and purple and then solve for its
angles so how do we do that it seems
pretty impossible how can we get from
this triangles angles to the original
angles well let me present to you the
ingenious trick
the problem becomes easy if you rotate
the triangle 60 degrees from a vertex so
let's imagine rotating this triangle 60
degrees counterclockwise from the bottom
left vertex
we now connect the random point on the
rotated triangle to the original
triangle and we will show that we have
now found a triangle with a blue yellow
and purple side so this will be the
triangle and we will be able to solve
for its angles so that's going to be the
plan of the proof now how do we know
this is the particular triangle we're
looking for so let's work each step out
the first step is that the two blue
lines form a 60-degree angle this is
because the triangle was rotated 60
degrees but just to be sure we know this
is a 60-degree angle let's figure it out
suppose the blue segment divided the
equilateral triangle in two angles a and
60 minus a will mark the same angles in
the triangle that was rotated now the
two blue lines make an angle of 60 minus
a plus a which is 60 degrees so we've
proved that this angle between the two
blue lines is 60 degrees next we'll show
that the blue lines define an
equilateral triangle we'll form a
triangle by connecting the endpoints of
the two blue line segments the two blue
line segments have the same length
therefore we have an isosceles triangle
with the vertex angle of 60 degrees the
remaining two angles will be equal to
each other and the sum of the three
angles in a triangle is 180 degrees so
each remaining angle will be 180 minus
60 and then we divide that by 2 so each
remaining angle is 60 degrees therefore
all three angles of this triangle are 60
degrees and so it's an equilateral
triangle so the very last side has the
same length as the blue sides so I'll
color this last side in blue
now what can we do from here we now have
the triangle that we're looking for with
a blue yellow and purple side so we'll
solve for the angles of this triangle
the first thing we can do is that we can
solve that the angle between the purple
and blue sides is X minus 60 degrees
next we'll solve for the angle between
the yellow and the blue side this can be
done because in the original triangle
this angle is y when we rotate the
triangle we know that the corresponding
angle will be Y and the angle that we're
looking for will be Y minus 60 so we
figured out two of the angles in this
triangle and we only have one more angle
to figure out so how can we figure out
this final angle well the sum of the
angles in a triangle is 180 degrees so
the final angle will be 180 degrees
minus each of the two angles we know X
minus 60 and Y minus 60 so this will
result in the angle of 300 minus X minus
y and that's the ingenious solution to
this seemingly impossible problem did
you figure it out thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can check out
my books which are listed in the video
description you can support me on
patreon and you can also catch me on
social media either at minor decisions
or at pressure tall Walker